---
title: Call Data
created: '2020-11-10T16:58:56.187778'
modified: '2020-12-04T19:18:29.206705'
state: active
type: dataset
tags:
  - '911'
  - Calls For Service
  - Police
groups:
  - Local Government
csv_url: 'https://data.seattle.gov/api/views/33kz-ixgy/rows.csv?accessType=DOWNLOAD'
json_url: 'https://data.seattle.gov/api/views/33kz-ixgy/rows.json?accessType=DOWNLOAD'
layout: post

---
Note! Latitude and Longitude are temporarily unavailable, while we chase down a bug. Please excuse the inconvenience (DGAL 512). 

This data represents police response activity. Each row is a record of a Call for Service (CfS) logged with the Seattle Police Department (SPD) Communications Center. Calls originated from the community and range from in progress or active emergencies to requests for problem solving. Additionally, officers will log calls from their observations of the field. 

Previous versions of this data set have withheld approximately 40% of calls. This updated process will release more than 95% of all calls but we will no longer provide latitude and longitude specific location data. In an effort to safeguard the privacy of our community, calls will only be located to the “beat” level. Beats are the most granular unit of management used for patrol deployment. To learn more about patrol deployment, please visit: https://www.seattle.gov/police/about-us/about-policing/precinct-and-patrol-boundaries.

As with any data, certain conditions and qualifications apply:

1)	These data are queried from the Data Analytics Platform (DAP), and updated incrementally on a daily basis. A full refresh will occur twice a year and is intended to reconcile minor changes.

2)	This data set only contains records of police response. If a call is queued in the system but cleared before an officer can respond, it will not be included. 

3)	These data contain administrative call types. Use the “Initial” and “Final” call type to identify the calls you wish to include in your analysis. 

We invite you to engage these data, ask questions and explore.
