---
title: Census Blocks 2010
created: '2020-11-10T16:59:12.327211'
modified: '2020-11-10T16:59:12.327218'
state: active
type: dataset
tags:
  - '2010'
  - Block
  - Boundaries
  - Census
  - Cosgis
  - Planning
  - Seattle
  - Seattlecitygis
  - Wa
  - Wm_census_block10
groups:
  - Local Government
csv_url: >-
  https://data-seattlecitygis.opendata.arcgis.com/datasets/38105e262d9441b59b2dde020cb02b40_13.csv?outSR=%7B%22latestWkid%22%3A2926%2C%22wkid%22%3A2926%7D
json_url: >-
  https://gisdata.seattle.gov/server/rest/services/COS/Census_OpenData/MapServer/13
layout: post

---
The TIGER/Line Files are shapefiles and related database files (.dbf) 
that are an extract of selected geographic and cartographic information 
from the U.S. Census Bureau's Master Address File / Topologically 
Integrated Geographic Encoding and Referencing (MAF/TIGER) Database 
(MTDB). The MTDB represents a seamless national file with no overlaps or
 gaps between parts, however, each TIGER/Line File is designed to stand 
alone as an independent data set, or they can be combined to cover the 
entire nation. Census Blocks are statistical areas bounded on all sides 
by visible features, such as streets, roads, streams, and railroad 
tracks, and/or by nonvisible boundaries such as city, town, township, 
and county limits, and short line-of-sight extensions of streets and 
roads. Census blocks are relatively small in area; for example, a block 
in a city bounded by streets. However, census blocks in remote areas are
 often large and irregular and may even be many square miles in area. A 
common misunderstanding is that data users think census blocks are used 
geographically to build all other census geographic areas, rather all 
other census geographic areas are updated and then used as the primary 
constraints, along with roads and water features, to delineate the 
tabulation blocks. As a result, all 2010 Census blocks nest within every
 other 2010 Census geographic area, so that Census Bureau statistical 
data can be tabulated at the block level and aggregated up to the 
appropriate geographic areas. Census blocks cover all territory in the 
United States, Puerto Rico, and the Island Areas (American Samoa, Guam, 
the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the U.S. Virgin 
Islands). Blocks are the smallest geographic areas for which the Census 
Bureau publishes data from the decennial census. A block may consist of 
one or more faces.
